Welcome back.
Let's start to code our very first algorithm with breadth first search.
If you remember with breadth first search we have to go from the top then to the left and then visit
all the nodes in that level.
And when I said that it uses a lot of memory is that when it visits 6 and 12 from there it's going to
go back to 1 4 then 34 then 45.
So as it goes through this level we need to keep a reference to all the children nodes of every node
that we visit so that we can go back to them and visit 1 and 4 that's where the memory is coming from
because we have to keep track of those children of the level that we're on.
And you'll also notice this path that we're taking from nine to 6 to 12 to one to four to 34 for 45.
We're going to be using a Q data structure which allows us to keep a reference to the notes that we
want to come back to because we know 6 is in front of 12.
We can go back to it and discover its child nodes.
So let's get coding with our breath first search algorithm we have over here our binary search tree
from our tree data structure section.
We've already implemented the insert Look-Up remove methods and we've created this binary search tree
that gives us this type of tree.
Let's remove these for now and start coding our own breath first search implementation and ideally by
calling this function we get a list of all these items in the order of breath.
First search that is 9:4 20 once x 15 170.
Let's call this
first search
and within here we need three things.
One is the current node which will start with the root node
and we need two other things.
One is the actual list that will be our answer will have an array here where we insert these numbers
into in the order of breath for search.
And we also need a Q data structure which will use an array for this example.
To keep track of the level we're at so that we can access the children once we go through it remember
we're going to keep track of 9 then we're going to keep track of 6 and 12 and when we get to 6 and 12
that's going to be in our queue.
But we have to go back once we're at the end of that level to 6 so that we can discover 1 and 4.
So that's what the Q will be used for.
Now the very first thing we're going to do is to add to the queue the very first item the root node.
So we're gonna say Q Dot push current node.
Now what we need to do here is go from the current node down to our children node and again go from
left to right and then go to their children note and go from left to right.
And the way we're going to do that is to use a while loop and we'll say that as long as Q Dot lenth
is going to be greater than zero that is we have nothing left in the queue.
In that case we'll say that the current node will be q dot shift
and shift simply means that we take the very first item in the queue.
Remember a queue is just the line up to the roller coaster and the first person that comes in gets to
go first on the roller coaster and shift simply returns and removes the first item in the queue and
our case will have 9 as the first item in the queue.
The 9 node and we're going to shift that and assign it to the current node and because this is the root
node we want to start off in our answer that the list will have the number nine at the top.
Let's move this up here just so you can see better.
So the first thing we're going to do is say list dot push the current node dot Valley which will be
nine.
So we have the first answer in our list which is not from there.
We're going to say hey does the nine node have a left child.
Because if it does let's add it to the Q saying that we you need to check out that note and we'll push
it to the Q current node dot left so what we just did here is we've added four to the queue and then
we also want to add 20 to that.
So I'm going to say if after you've added 4 to the queue I'm going to say hey does a current note have
a right node child node.
In that case Wolf added to the queue again as the second item in the queue and the current no doubt
rate will be pushed to the queue.
And this is the amazing thing of all we just did.
Now that the queue has two items as it passes you will have 4 and 20.
It's going to loop through this line and say q does shift is going to grab for and say push for to the
current to the list.
And then it's going to say hey does four have a left child.
Yes it does it has one.
Well then added to the queue.
So one gets added to the queue that has for 20 and now 1 and then we say hey does 4 have a right child.
Yes we have six.
Well we're going to add that to the queue again.
So we're going to have 4 21:6 and then we go back to the top and say what's next in line.
Well we have 20.
So let's shift 20.
Grab that.
Remove that from our queue and go through it again again.
Left child will be 15 and write child who will be 170 if we cancelled all log here.
Our current node dot Valley and actually just log at
down here which will be shifted.
No that is the No that we're going to be operating on and checking out and we'll have to actually call
that so let's do tree dot breath for a search and I click run we see that I'm checking nine then I'm
checking for that I'm checking 20 that I'm checking one then six then 15 then 170 very very cool.
And we're pushing that to the list every time.
So all we need to do at the end is just save return list so that if I run this look at that I have my
breath.
First search that returns nine then for than 20.
They're 1 6 15 and 170.
There wasn't too bad was it.
We see from this code here that it's quite simple and the only issue that we have is that this queue
can get pretty large because we have to keep reference to our child nodes the memory consumption that
can really hurt us.
Is this cue that we keep adding to we keep popping things we also add to the Q So that if we have a
really wide tree instead of a binary tree where we just have a left and a right and maybe we have 10
child notes this queue can get pretty big and depending on the data that memory consumption might be
big.
And that's one of the main downsides with Brad for search.
But hopefully you see the simplicity of breath first search wasn't too bad it was all right I'll see
you in the next video.